Creamy Garlic Shrimp Pasta
(A non-vegetarian, non-lasagna alternative)

Ingredients

1 lb large shrimp, peeled and deveined

12 oz fettuccine or linguine pasta

4 tablespoons unsalted butter, divided

3 tablespoons olive oil, divided

4-5 cloves garlic, thinly sliced or minced

1 cup heavy cream

1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese

1/4 cup fresh lemon juice (about 1 lemon)

1 teaspoon lemon zest

1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley

1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes (optional)

Salt and pepper to taste

Fresh basil for garnish (optional)

Instructions

Cook Pasta:
Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Cook the pasta according to package directions until al dente. Reserve 1 cup of pasta water before draining.

Prepare Shrimp:
Pat the shrimp dry with paper towels and season generously with salt and pepper. Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the shrimp in a single layer and cook for 1-2 minutes per side, until pink and opaque. Remove the shrimp from the skillet and set aside.

Make Sauce:
Reduce the heat to medium. In the same skillet, add 2 tablespoons of butter and the remaining 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Add the sliced garlic and red pepper flakes (if using). Sauté for 1 minute until fragrant, being careful not to burn the garlic.

Create Cream Sauce:
Pour the heavy cream into the skillet and bring to a gentle simmer. Add the lemon juice, lemon zest, and remaining 2 tablespoons of butter. Whisk until the butter melts and the sauce begins to thicken slightly, about 3-4 minutes.

Combine:
Reduce the heat to low. Stir in the grated Parmesan cheese until melted and smooth. If the sauce is too thick, add reserved pasta water a little at a time until it reaches the desired consistency.

Finish Dish:
Return the cooked shrimp to the skillet. Add the drained pasta and chopped parsley. Toss everything together until the pasta is fully coated in the sauce. Season with additional salt and pepper to taste.

Serve:
Serve immediately in warm bowls. Garnish with fresh basil leaves if desired. Enjoy!
